---
categories: 
  - Math 146
  - Linear Algebra
---

> Known problem: if latex command does not render, please refresh the page. Thanks.

### Notes.
1. To show a non-empty subset $W$ of $V$ is a subspace of $V$: show that for all $\alpha, \beta \in V$, $c \in \mathbb{F}$, $c\alpha + \beta \in W$. 
2. The solution space of a aystem of homogeneous linear equations is a subspace. Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ matrix over $\mathbb{F}$. Then the set of all $n \times 1$ matrixs $X$ over $\mathbb{F}$ such that $AX = 0$ is a subspace of the space of all $n \times 1$ matrices over $\mathbb{F}$. To prove this, we would show $A(cX + Y) = 0$ when $AX = 0 = AY$ and $c \in \mathbb{F}$. 

------

### Span.
***Theorem.***\\
Let $V$ be a vector space over $\mathbb{F}$. The intersection of any collection of subspaces of $V$ is a subspace of $V$.

***Proof.***\\
Let $\{W_a\}$ be a collection of subspaces of $V$ and let $W = \cap_a W_a$ be their intersection. Recall that $W$ is defined as the set of all elements belonging to every $W_a$. Since each $W_a$ is a subspace, each contains the zero vector, thus the intersection contains the zero vector. Let$\alpha, \beta \in W, c \in \mathbb{F}$. By definition of $W$, both $\alpha$ and $\beta$ belong to each $W_a$, and because each of them is a subspace, $(c\alpha + \beta)$ belongs to every $W_a$. Thus $(c\alpha + \beta) \in W$. It follows that $W$ is a subspace of $V$. 

***Definition.***\\
(From Math 136. I hate the definition in Hoffman's textbook.) 
The span of a set of vectors $\mathcal{B} = \\{v_1, \ldots, v_k\\}$ is the set of all linear combinations of the vectors in the set. That is, $\text{ span }\mathcal{B} = \\{c_1v_1 + \cdots + c_kv_k : c_i \in \mathbb{F}\\}$.

------

### Identify Subspaces (Vectors)
***Question.***\\
Which of the following sets of vectors $\alpha = (\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n) \in \mathbb{R}^n$ are subspaces of $\mathbb{R}^n (n\geq 3)$?

1. $A :=$ all $\alpha$ such that $\alpha_1 \geq 0$.
  - This is not a subspace: $(1, \ldots, 1)$'s additive inverse is $(-1, \ldots, -1)\notin A$.
2. $B :=$ all $\alpha$ such that $\alpha_1 + 3\alpha_2 = \alpha_3$.
  - This is a subspace: suppose $a = (a_1, \ldots, a_n), b = (b_1, \ldots, b_n) \in B, c \in \mathbb{R}$. 
  - We want to show that $c(a_1, \ldots, a_n) + (b_1, \ldots, b_n) = (ca_1+b_1, \ldots, ca_n+b_n)$. 
  - Now $(ca_1 + b_1) + 3(ca_2+b_2) = c(a_1+3a_2) + (b_1+3b_2) = c(a_3)+(b_3) = ca_3 + b_3.$ 
  - This satisfies the condition and hence $B$ is a subspace.
3. $C :=$ all $\alpha$ such that$a_2 = a_1^2$.
  - This is not a subspace.
  - Note that $(1, 1, \ldots, 1)$ satisfies the condition, but $(1, \ldots, 1) + (1, \ldots, 1) = (2, \ldots, 2)$ does not.
4. $D :=$ all $\alpha$ such that $\alpha_1\alpha_2 = 0$.
  - This is not a subspace. 
  - Note that $(1, 0, \ldots)$ and $(0, 1, \ldots)$ satisfy the condition, but $(1, 1, \ldots)$ does not.
5. $E :=$ all $\alpha$ such that $\alpha_2 \in \mathbb{Q}$. 
  - This is not a subspace.
  - Note that $\pi \in \mathbb{R}$ and $\pi(1, 1, \ldots) = (\pi, \pi, \ldots) \notin E$. 
  
------

### Identify Subspaces (Functions)
***Question.***\\
Let $V$ be the real vector space of all function $f$ from $\mathbb{R}$ to $\mathbb{R}$. Which of the following sets of functions are subspaces of $V$?

1. $A :=$ all $f$ such that $f(x^2) = f^2(x)$.
  - This is not a subspace.
  - Let $f(x) = x, g(x) = x^2$. $f, g \in A$ since $f(x^2) = x^2 = f^2(x), g(x^2) = x^4 = g^2(x)$.
  - If $A$ is a subspace, then $(f+g)(x^2)$ should equal to $(f+g)^2(x)$.
  - $(f+g)(x^2) = f(x^2) + g(x^2) = x^2 + x^4$.
  - $(f+g)^2(x) = [(f+g)(x)]^2 = [f(x)+g(x)]^2 = [x+x^2]^2 = x^4+2x^3+x^2 \ne x^2+x^4$.
  - Thus it is not a subspace.
2. $B :=$ all $f$ such that $f(0) = f(1)$.
  - This is a subspace.
  - Suppose $f, g \in B$. That is, $f(0) = f(1), g(0) = g(1)$.
  - Then $(cf + g)(0) = cf(0) + g(0) = cf(1) + g(1) = (cf+g)(1) \in B$.
3. $C :=$ all $f$ such that $f(3) = 1 + f(-5)$.
  - This is not a subspace.
  - Suppose $f(3) = 1$ and $f(x) = 0$ when $x \ne 3$, $g(-5) = 0$ and $g(x) = 1$ when $x \ne -5$.
  - $(f + g)(3) = f(3) + g(3) = 2 \neq 1+(f+g)(-5) = 1 + f(-5) + g(-5) = 1 + 0 + 0 = 1$.
  - Thus $C$ is not a subspace.
  
---

### Computation
***Question.*** \\
Is the vector $(3, -1, 0, -1) \in \mathbb{R}$ spanned by $(2, -1, 3, 2), (-1, 1, 1, -3)$ and $(1, 1, 9, -5)?

***Solution.***\\
No. Reduce the augmented matrix 

$$\left[ \begin{array}{rrr|r} 2 & -1 & 1 & 3\\ -1 & 1 & 1 & -1\\ 3 & 1 & 9 & 0\\ 2 & -3 & -5 & -1 \end{array} \right],$$

we get 

$$\left[ \begin{array}{rrr|r} 1 & 0 & 2 & 2 \\ 0 & 1 & 3 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & -7 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & -2 \end{array} \right].$$

This indicates that the system does not have a solution. Hence, $(3, -1, 0, -1)$ is not in the spanning set of the other three vectors. 

---

### Find the Basis
***Question.*** \\
Let $W$ be the set of all $(x_1, x_2, x_3, x_4, x_5) \in \mathbb{R}^5$ which satisfy

$$ \begin{align*} 2x_1 - x_2 + \frac{4}{3}x_3 - x_4 &= 0 \\ x_1 + \frac{2}{3}x_3 - x^5 &= 0 \\ 9x_1 -3x_2 + 6x_3 -3x_4 -3x_5 &= 0\end{align*}$$

Find a finite set of vectors which spans $W$.

***Solution.***\\
The matrix of the system is

$$\begin{bmatrix} 2 & -1 & 3/4 & -1 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 2/3 & 0 & -1 \\ 9 & -3 & 6 & -3 & -3 \end{bmatrix}.$$

Reduce this to RRE, we have 

$$\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 2/3 & 0 & -1 \\ 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 & -2 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$$

Thus the system is equivalent to 

$$\begin{align*} x_1 + 2/3x_3 - x_5 &= 0 \\ x_2 + x_4 - 2x_5 &= 0 \end{align*}$$

The system is parameterized by $(x_3, x_4, x_5)$. **<u>Setting each equal to one and the other two to zero</u>**, we get three vectors $(-2/3, 0, 1, 0, 0), (0, -1, 0, 1, 0)$ and $(1, 2, 0, 0, 1)$. These three vectors therefore span $W$.

------

### Subspaces of Matrices

***Question.***\\
Let $V$ be the vector space of all $n \times n$ matrices over $\mathbb{F}, n \geq 2$. Which of the following sets of matrices $A \in V$ are subspaces of $V$?
1. All invertible $A$
  - Not a subspace.
  - Consider $\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}$ and $\begin{bmatrix} -1 & 0 \\\ 0 & -1\end{bmatrix}$. 
  - Both of them are row-equivalent to the identity matrix thus are invertible, but their sum, the zero matrix, is not.
2. All non-invertible $A$
  - Not a subspace.
  - Consier $\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\\ 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$ and $\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 0 \\\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}$.
  - Both of them are non-invertible, but their sum is the identity matrix.
3. All $A$ such that $AB = BA$, where $B \in M_{n,n}(\mathbb{F})$.
  - This is a subspace.
  - Let $A_1, A_2 \in A$. Let $c \in \mathbb{F}$.
  - By hypothesis, $A_1B = BA_1, A_2B = BA_2$.
  - Let $C = cA_1+A_2$. We want to show that $CB = BC$. 
  - $CB = (cA_1+A_2)B = (cA_1)B + A_2B = B(cA_1) + BA_2 = B(cA_1 + A_2) = BC$.
4. All $A$ such that $A^2 = A$.
  - When $\mathbb{F} = \mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z}$ (integer modulo 2), this is a subspace. Otherwise it is not.
  - Suppose char$\mathbb{F} \ne 2$. Let $A = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}$. Then $A^2 = A$. But $(A+A)^2 \ne (A+A)$. Thus this is not a subspace.
  - Suppose $\mathbb{F} = \mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z}$. Suppose $A^2 = A, B^2 = B$. Then $(cA+B)^2 = c^2A^2 + 2cAB + B^2$. Now $2 = 0$ reduces this to $c^2A^2 + B^2$. It turns out that $c^2A^2 + B^2 = cA+B$ whether $c = 0$ or $1$. Hence this is a subspace.
  - Now suppose char$\mathbb{F} = 2$ but not integer modulo 2. Then $\|F\| > 2$. The polynomial $x^2 - x = 0$ has at most two solutions in $\mathbb{F}$. Thus there exists $c \in \mathbb{F}$ such that $c^2 \ne c$ ($\mathbb{F}$ contains more than two elements, but the quadratic holds for at most two elements. Therefore there does exist that $x^2 - x \ne 0$, o $x^2 \ne x$). Consider the elementary matrix. We do have $I^2 = I$, but if this is a subspace, then $cI$ should also be in the subspace, ie. $(cI)^2 = c^2I^2$. This reduces to $c = c^2$ for all $c \in \mathbb{F}$, a desired contradiction.
  
------

### Logic and Proof

***Question.***\\
Let $W_1, W_2$ be subspaces of a vector space $V$ such that $W_1 + W_2 = V$ and $W_1 \cap W_2 = \\{0\\}$. Prove that for each vector $\alpha \in V$ there are *unique* vectors $\alpha_1 \in W_1$ and $\alpha_2 \in W_2$ such that $\alpha = \alpha_1 + \alpha_2$.

***Proof.***\\
Let $\alpha \in W$. Suppose $\alpha = \alpha_1 + \alpha_2$ for $\alpha_i \in W_i$ and $\alpha = \beta_1 + \beta_2$ for $\beta_i \in W_i$. Then $\alpha_1 + \alpha_2 = \beta_1 + \beta_2$ implies $\alpha_1 - \beta_1 = \alpha_2 - \beta-2$. Thus $\alpha_1 - \beta_1 \in W_2$ and $\alpha_2 - \beta_1 \in W_2$. Since $W_1 \cap W_2 = \\{0\\}$, it follows that $\alpha_1 - \beta_1 = 0$, or $\alpha_1 = \beta_1$. A similar argument tells us $\alpha_2 = \beta_2$. 
