---
layout: post
title: CS145-Master
description: Notes for CS145 - Designing Functional Programs
date: 2018-02-10
category:
- CS
- 2017-Fall-1A
---

> Git repository link: [CS145 Notes](https://github.com/RootofalleviI/CS145).



##### Remarks:

1. This set of notes was extremely messy because I ran out of time at the end.
2. Instead of using more advanced tools like Latex or Jupyter Notebooks, back then I was writing everything in Notepad++ (the process was quite fun though since I designed my custom highlighting sytnax) and then exported everything to PDF.
3. General overview of the structure: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RootofalleviI/CS145/master/14b58370dae711e7b623937a0c0fcf35.map.pdf.

##### The initial README:

1. *Midterm-II-Review-Guide-David-Duan-V3.0.pdf*
   Study guide I made for the second midterm. 
   Covers Asymptotic Analysis, ADT, Higher-order Functions, etc.
2. *Lambda Calculus.pdf*
   Covers the basics of Lambda Calculus including 
      Logic (IF, AND, OR, NOT, XOR)
      List (Cons, Car, Cdr)
      Binary representation and operations (ADD1, SUB1, ADD, SUB, MUL, NAT, TAN)
3. *Y-combinator.pdf & Y-combinator 2.pdf*
   An attempt to explain the derivation of Y-combinator.
4. *RAM.pdf and CPU.pdf*
   Covers stuff related to RAM and CPU
5. *Tree.pdf*
   Basically midterm I stuff.
6. *CS145 Final Review V1.1.pdf*
   I thought I was gonna put everything into a huge file but then I realized it's a bad idea...
   But I'm too lazy to take care of this file...
   I think there are some random topics in it...
   
I'm pretty sure there are countless typos and minor mistakes (hopefully no significant ones, 
just stuff like missing brackets or writing function as "functino" or lambda as "lamdba", etc.)
so when you read them please question everything (yes you should question everything in your life
on a daily basis) and only believe what I write is correct after you do the proof by yourself.

OK good luck on the final exam.
And someone please teach me how to use github lul...

Best,
David 
04:12 am on the exam day fml I can't sleep...
